README.md, before:

# cmd-runner

[![CI](https://github.com/osteele/cmd-runner/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/osteele/cmd-runner/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/osteele/cmd-runner)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/osteele/cmd-runner)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/mascot.jpg" alt="cmd-runner mascot - a friendly robot with tools" width="256" height="256">
</p>

A smart command runner that finds and executes commands across different build systems and project types.

**Why?** Working across multiple projects with different tech stacks (Rust/Cargo, Node/npm/bun, Python/uv, Go, etc.) means remembering different commands for the same tasks. Instead of trying to recall whether it's `npm run test`, `cargo test`, `go test`, or `make test`, or wondering whether this Node project uses `npm run test` or `bun test`, simply use `cmdr test` in any project.

## Quick Start

See what commands are available in any project:

```bash
$ cmdr --list
Available commands for this project:

npm commands:
  build        → Build the application
  test         → Run test suite
  dev          → Start development server
  lint         → Run ESLint
  format       → Format with Prettier
  typecheck    → Run TypeScript compiler checks

Synthesized commands (provided by cmd-runner):
  check        → Runs lint, typecheck, and test
  fix          → Runs format and lint fix

Command aliases:
  f  → format     t  → test       tc → typecheck
  r  → run        s  → serve      b  → build
  l  → lint
```

Now just run what you need:

```bash
$ cmdr test     # Runs npm test in this project
$ cmdr t        # Short alias for test
$ cmdr check    # Runs lint, typecheck, and test together
```

## Example

```bash
# In a Rust project
$ cmdr test
Running: cargo test

# In a Node project with bun
$ cmdr test
Running: bun run test

# In a project with a Makefile
$ cmdr format
Running: make format

# Or use the shorter alias
$ cr test
Running: cargo test

# Ultra-short aliases work too
$ cmdr t        # Same as: cmdr test
$ cmdr f        # Same as: cmdr format
$ cmdr b        # Same as: cmdr build
```

## Installation

```bash
go install github.com/osteele/cmd-runner/cmd/cmdr@latest
```

This installs the binary as `cmdr`. For an even shorter command, you can install the `cr` alias:

```bash
# Preview what will be changed (dry-run)
cmdr install-alias --dry-run

# Install the alias
cmdr install-alias
```

Or manually create an alias in your shell configuration:

```bash
alias cr=cmdr

# For an ultra-short alias, you could even use punctuation:
alias ,=cmdr   # Now you can type: , test
alias @=cmdr   # Now you can type: @ build
```

Or install from source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/osteele/cmd-runner.git
cd cmd-runner
go install ./cmd/cmdr
```

## Usage

```bash
cmdr [OPTIONS] <command> [args...]
cmdr --list                      # List all available commands for current project
cmdr --list --all                # Show commands from all sources
cmdr --list --verbose            # Show full command descriptions
cmdr --help                      # Show help information
cmdr --version                   # Show version
cmdr install-alias [--dry-run]  # Install 'cr' alias to shell config
```

Options:
- `--list`, `-l` - List all available commands for current project
  - `--all`, `-a` - Show commands from all sources (not just primary)
  - `--verbose` - Show full command descriptions without truncation
- `--version`, `-v` - Show version information
- `--help`, `-h` - Show help message

Examples:
```bash
cmdr format           # Runs format or fmt command
cmdr test             # Runs test command
cmdr run              # Runs run, dev, or serve command
cmdr build -- --prod  # Runs build with additional arguments

# Or with the short alias (after installing)
cr test               # Same as cmdr test
cr format             # Same as cmdr format

# Ultra-short command aliases
cmdr f                # format
cmdr t                # test
cmdr tc               # typecheck
cmdr r                # run
cmdr s                # serve/server
cmdr b                # build
cmdr l                # lint

# Show all available commands
cmdr --list           # List commands for current project (primary source only)
cmdr -l               # Short form of --list
cmdr --list --all     # Show commands from all sources and directories
cmdr --list --verbose # Show full descriptions without truncation

# Flags are passed through to commands
cmdr test --verbose   # Runs test command with --verbose flag
cmdr build --prod     # Runs build command with --prod flag
```

### Discovering Available Commands

Use `cmdr --list` to see all available commands for your current project:

```bash
$ cmdr --list
Available commands for this project:

Node.js commands:
  lint         → npm run lint
  format       → npm run format
  dev          → npm run dev
  build        → npm run build
  test         → npm run test

Command aliases:
  f  → format     t  → test       tc → typecheck
  r  → run        s  → serve      b  → build
  l  → lint
```

The list command shows:
- Commands from your build system (make, just, npm scripts, etc.)
- What each command will actually execute
- Available short aliases
- Synthesized commands provided by cmd-runner

Options for `--list`:
- By default, shows only the primary command source with descriptions truncated to terminal width
- Use `--all` to see commands from all sources (current directory and project root)
- Use `--verbose` to see full descriptions without truncation
- Use `--help` with `--list` to see available options

## Features

- Intelligent command aliasing (e.g., `run` → `dev` → `serve`)
- Searches both current directory and project root
- Passes through additional arguments to the underlying command
- Supports all major build systems and package managers

For a detailed explanation of the command discovery logic, aliasing, and supported systems, see the [**Specification**](SPECIFICATION.md).

## See Also

Check out my [development tools](https://osteele.com/software/development-tools) page for additional projects.

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

feat: Implement interactive TUI mode for command execution
Introduces an interactive terminal user interface (TUI) mode that allows users to select and run commands more easily.

Key features include:
- Launchable via `-i` or `--interactive` flags.
- Single-key shortcuts for common commands (e.g., `t` for test, `b` for build).
- Numbered shortcuts for other commands.
- Repeat last command functionality using `.`.
- Toggle between the command menu and the output of the last executed command using `/`.
- Type-ahead support for searching commands by name or prefix.
- Graceful handling of command execution, returning to the menu on success and pausing on failure.
- Clean exit with `q` or Ctrl+C.

This commit also includes the necessary dependencies (`golang.org/x/term`, `golang.org/x/sys`) and new internal packages (`internal/interactive.go`, `internal/terminal.go`) to support this feature. The `ROADMAP.md` has been updated to reflect the implementation of these TUI features.

README.md, after:

# cmd-runner

[![CI](https://github.com/osteele/cmd-runner/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/osteele/cmd-runner/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/osteele/cmd-runner)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/osteele/cmd-runner)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/mascot.jpg" alt="cmd-runner mascot - a friendly robot with tools" width="256" height="256">
</p>

A smart command runner that finds and executes commands across different build systems and project types.

**Why?** Working across multiple projects with different tech stacks (Rust/Cargo, Node/npm/bun, Python/uv, Go, etc.) means remembering different commands for the same tasks. Instead of trying to recall whether it's `npm run test`, `cargo test`, `go test`, or `make test`, or wondering whether this Node project uses `npm run test` or `bun test`, simply use `cmdr test` in any project.

## Quick Start

See what commands are available in any project:

```bash
$ cmdr --list
Available commands for this project:

npm commands:
  build        → Build the application
  test         → Run test suite
  dev          → Start development server
  lint         → Run ESLint
  format       → Format with Prettier
  typecheck    → Run TypeScript compiler checks

Synthesized commands (provided by cmd-runner):
  check        → Runs lint, typecheck, and test
  fix          → Runs format and lint fix

Command aliases:
  f  → format     t  → test       tc → typecheck
  r  → run        s  → serve      b  → build
  l  → lint
```

Now just run what you need:

```bash
$ cmdr test     # Runs npm test in this project
$ cmdr t        # Short alias for test
$ cmdr check    # Runs lint, typecheck, and test together
```

## Interactive Mode

For a more interactive experience, use the `-i` flag to launch interactive mode:

```bash
$ cmdr -i
# or
$ cr -i
```

This launches an interactive menu where you can:
- Press single keys to run common commands (`t` for test, `b` for build, etc.)
- Use `.` to repeat the last command
- Toggle between the menu and previous output with `/`
- Type command names or unique prefixes for any command
- Quit anytime with `q` or Ctrl+C

The interactive mode maintains flow - successful commands return immediately to the menu, while failures pause for review.

## Example

```bash
# In a Rust project
$ cmdr test
Running: cargo test

# In a Node project with bun
$ cmdr test
Running: bun run test

# In a project with a Makefile
$ cmdr format
Running: make format

# Or use the shorter alias
$ cr test
Running: cargo test

# Ultra-short aliases work too
$ cmdr t        # Same as: cmdr test
$ cmdr f        # Same as: cmdr format
$ cmdr b        # Same as: cmdr build
```

## Installation

```bash
go install github.com/osteele/cmd-runner/cmd/cmdr@latest
```

This installs the binary as `cmdr`. For an even shorter command, you can install the `cr` alias:

```bash
# Preview what will be changed (dry-run)
cmdr install-alias --dry-run

# Install the alias
cmdr install-alias
```

Or manually create an alias in your shell configuration:

```bash
alias cr=cmdr

# For an ultra-short alias, you could even use punctuation:
alias ,=cmdr   # Now you can type: , test
alias @=cmdr   # Now you can type: @ build
```

Or install from source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/osteele/cmd-runner.git
cd cmd-runner
go install ./cmd/cmdr
```

## Usage

```bash
cmdr [OPTIONS] <command> [args...]
cmdr --list                      # List all available commands for current project
cmdr --list --all                # Show commands from all sources
cmdr --list --verbose            # Show full command descriptions
cmdr --help                      # Show help information
cmdr --version                   # Show version
cmdr install-alias [--dry-run]  # Install 'cr' alias to shell config
```

Options:
- `--list`, `-l` - List all available commands for current project
  - `--all`, `-a` - Show commands from all sources (not just primary)
  - `--verbose` - Show full command descriptions without truncation
- `--version`, `-v` - Show version information
- `--help`, `-h` - Show help message

Examples:
```bash
cmdr format           # Runs format or fmt command
cmdr test             # Runs test command
cmdr run              # Runs run, dev, or serve command
cmdr build -- --prod  # Runs build with additional arguments

# Or with the short alias (after installing)
cr test               # Same as cmdr test
cr format             # Same as cmdr format

# Ultra-short command aliases
cmdr f                # format
cmdr t                # test
cmdr tc               # typecheck
cmdr r                # run
cmdr s                # serve/server
cmdr b                # build
cmdr l                # lint

# Show all available commands
cmdr --list           # List commands for current project (primary source only)
cmdr -l               # Short form of --list
cmdr --list --all     # Show commands from all sources and directories
cmdr --list --verbose # Show full descriptions without truncation

# Flags are passed through to commands
cmdr test --verbose   # Runs test command with --verbose flag
cmdr build --prod     # Runs build command with --prod flag
```

### Discovering Available Commands

Use `cmdr --list` to see all available commands for your current project:

```bash
$ cmdr --list
Available commands for this project:

Node.js commands:
  lint         → npm run lint
  format       → npm run format
  dev          → npm run dev
  build        → npm run build
  test         → npm run test

Command aliases:
  f  → format     t  → test       tc → typecheck
  r  → run        s  → serve      b  → build
  l  → lint
```

The list command shows:
- Commands from your build system (make, just, npm scripts, etc.)
- What each command will actually execute
- Available short aliases
- Synthesized commands provided by cmd-runner

Options for `--list`:
- By default, shows only the primary command source with descriptions truncated to terminal width
- Use `--all` to see commands from all sources (current directory and project root)
- Use `--verbose` to see full descriptions without truncation
- Use `--help` with `--list` to see available options

## Features

- Intelligent command aliasing (e.g., `run` → `dev` → `serve`)
- Searches both current directory and project root
- Passes through additional arguments to the underlying command
- Supports all major build systems and package managers

For a detailed explanation of the command discovery logic, aliasing, and supported systems, see the [**Specification**](SPECIFICATION.md).

## See Also

Check out my [development tools](https://osteele.com/software/development-tools) page for additional projects.

## License

MIT License
